---
layout: post
title: I admit, I want to be a Craftsman
excerpt: "Developers have long discussed and debated whether programming is an art, a science, an engineering practice, or something else. I don't believe in Black and White. I think programming means different things for different people. And programming fulfills different expectations depending on use..."
tags: [programming,personal]
comments: true
---
Developers have long discussed and debated whether programming is an art, a science, an engineering practice, or something else. I don't believe in Blacks and Whites. I think programming means different things to different people. And programming fulfills different expectations depending on its use.

Over the last ten years, I've taken quite the winding road as a developer. Before joining Microsoft, I was a back-end server developer using C#. I loved writing code. I loved learning how to write better code. I loved reading well written code. I loved Design Patterns, and Enterprise Application Architecture, and Test-Driven Development, and all the fancy buzzwords at the time. I blogged about these loves. I gave talks about these loves. Then several years later, I got a call that started the next phase of my career.

Almost on a whim, I joined Microsoft after a recruiter contacted me about an open position. It was like being called up to the Big Leagues for me, finally called home to the Mothership. I joined Microsoft as a Technical Evangelist. I blogged and shared other people's technologies. I was talking about the problems other people were having. I later joined Windows as a Program Manager. I worked to deliver technologies like the Windows Runtime and cool new video editing APIs. But over time, I just found myself less excited. I was at Microsoft for over nine years. Towards the end, I knew it was time for me to move on.

I felt like I was rapidly losing touch with the development world I once held so dear. I saw many of the cool technologies my friends were working with and I found myself wanting to be in their shoes. i had lost my passion. I had lost my fire. That feeling of excitement about going to work in the morning? I missed that feeling.

So I started interviewing at different companies. I found a couple that I was extremely excited about and absolutely loved the technologies they were using. Through the interview process, I fell in love with my current company and team at Concur. They have a great culture, a great group of individuals, and a great set of technologies that are sharpening my tools again (and hey, we're hiring!). I had thought about interviewing at Concur ever since Howard Dierking started talking about the work he was doing here. However, I let fear prevent me from taking the leap. "I don't want to be rejected". "I'm comfortable here at Microsoft". "I couldn't possibly find a job as good as this". "I should be happy here, I'm lucky". All the usual suspects. I finally did take the leap though, and I couldn't be happier with my decision.

Do I regret my time at Microsoft? Not at all. I enjoyed most of my time there. I worked with many great people (too many people to list here). I learned a lot from the many managers and coworkers I had over the years. I had many great experiences like talking at the //build conference and seeing how large-scale software is made and shipped. Now that I'm getting my dev legs back under me, I feel like everything I learned during my time at Microsoft has made me a better developer. Being a Program Manager taught me to think critically about technology and to focus on the things that actually provide value. The many different projects gave me a well-rounded software education which I will always be thankful for.

Here's the thing though... I want to be a Craftsman. I need to be creating. I need to be getting my hands dirty. I'm inspired by documentaries like [Jiro Dreams of Sushi](http://www.magpictures.com/jirodreamsofsushi/), [Building Without Nails](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7708E1bmoxc), [Design Is One](http://designisonefilm.com/), and [Helvetica](http://www.hustwit.com/category/helvetica/). I'm inspired by developers that use Vim or Emacs and can craft their own customized development environment; I love Tim Ewald's talk on [Clojure: Programming with Hand Tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShEez0JkOFw). I love "craftsman" programming languages like LISP/Scheme, Clojure, Smalltalk, Self, etc. The things people do with creative coding frameworks like Processing, or Cinder, or Open Frameworks absolute amaze me. gmunk's work on the [interfaces in the movie Oblivion](http://www.gmunk.com/OBLIVION-GFX)? Jaw-dropping (bonus: I discovered he did the graphics for my favorite desktop wallpaper in Windows 10!).

I suppose it goes without saying that I've consumed a lot of Robert C. Martin Kool-Aid over the years! And deep thinkers like Rich Hickey, Guy Steele, or Bret Victor.

I want to touch other people's lives. I want to share my love for writing code again. I want to be a Code Craftsman other people look up to. For others that want to be hackers, or engineers, or scientists, that's cool. But it's not me.

One thing is for sure: it's GREAT to be back! It's great to have started the next phase of my career. And I can't wait to see the stuff I'll be a part of in the years to come.
